According to the record kept by Mr. McKinney, on the west shore of the lake, eight miles above Tahoe City, at an elevation of 6,500 feet above sea-level, the amount of snow, measured as it fell, was twenty-two feet and four inches for the season up to March 20th, with four inches of rain, while an inch or two more of rain and two or three feet of snow will probably fall before the full opening of spring. Last season the snowfall, measured by the same observer, at the same station, was only nine feet and seven inches, while the season before last it was no less than forty seven feet and six inches. The fall about Yosemite Valley, according to my own observations, usually considerably exceeded this. The greater portion of the snow that loads the main summits of the range falls in small crisp flakes and broken crystals; or when accompanied by strong winds at a low temperature, the crystals, instead of being locked together in tufted flakes, are driven against each other and broken into meal and fine dust which darkens the sky like night But down in the forested region, at about the elevation of Lake Tahoe, the greater portion comes gently to the ground, light and feathery, some of the flakes in mild weather being nearly an inch in diameter, and is evenly distributed and kept from drifting to any great extent by Lake Tahoe in Winter. 121 the shelter of the woods. Every tree is loaded with the fairy bloom, bending down the branches, and hushing the singing of the elastic needles. When the storm is over and the sun shines, the dazzling snow at once begins to settle and shift and fall off the trees in miniature avalanches; then the relieved branches spring up and shake themselves dry, and the whole green forest, fed and refreshed, waves and sings again rejoicing. The snow on the ground settles also, and thaws and freezes until it becomes coarsely granulated ice, with all trace of its crystalline snow structure destroyed. This is the present condition of most of the snow on the range. From towards midnight until midday at this time of year a man may walk firmly over the surface, as if on ice, provided the preceding day has been warm and the night frosty.

According to the record kept by Mr. McKinney, on the west shore of the lake, eight miles above Tahoe City, at an elevation of 6,500 feet above sea-level, the amount of snow, measured as it fell, was twenty-two feet and four inches for the season up to March 20th, with four inches of rain, while an inch or two more of rain and two or three feet of snow will probably fall before the full opening of spring. Last season the snowfall, measured by the same observer, at the same station, was only nine feet and seven inches, while the season before last it was no less than forty seven feet and six inches. The fall about Yosemite Valley, according to my own observations, usually considerably exceeded this. The greater portion of the snow that loads the main summits of the range falls in small crisp flakes and broken crystals; or when accompanied by strong winds at a low temperature, the crystals, instead of being locked together in tufted flakes, are driven against each other and broken into meal and fine dust which darkens the sky like night But down in the forested region, at about the elevation of Lake Tahoe, the greater portion comes gently to the ground, light and feathery, some of the flakes in mild weather being nearly an inch in diameter, and is evenly distributed and kept from drifting to any great extent by Lake Tahoe in Winter. 121 the shelter of the woods. Every tree is loaded with the fairy bloom, bending down the branches, and hushing the singing of the elastic needles. When the storm is over and the sun shines, the dazzling snow at once begins to settle and shift and fall off the trees in miniature avalanches; then the relieved branches spring up and shake themselves dry, and the whole green forest, fed and refreshed, waves and sings again rejoicing. The snow on the ground settles also, and thaws and freezes until it becomes coarsely granulated ice, with all trace of its crystalline snow structure destroyed. This is the present condition of most of the snow on the range. From towards midnight until midday at this time of year a man may walk firmly over the surface, as if on ice, provided the preceding day has been warm and the night frosty.

The forested region up to an elevation of about eight thousand feet is generally clear of snow towards the end of May or middle of June; but now (March 28th) the higher canons are still heavily blocked, and the head tributaries of the rivers flow in dark tunnels beneath the icy mass. As warm summer advances, the roof of compacted snow falls in here and there, leaving magnificent arching bridges where it is strongest, over which one may safely ride a horse. All the upper streams are thus buried and bridged every winter, and are seldom completely opened to the light before the end of June or middle of July.

Notwithstanding twenty-two feet of snow has fallen here this season, so greatly has it been melted and compacted, the present average depth at a height of 7,500 feet does not exceed seven feet. The drifts in exposed lake hollows and along the lee sides of bald ridges above the timberline are often fifty feet or more in depth, and many of the latter are grandly adorned with overcurling cornices, beneath which pale blue light shimmers with ineffable beauty. But it is in the fountain cirques of the ancient glaciers, beneath the shadows of the highest peaks, that the heaviest and most enduring deposits are stored up. For there the lavish snowfall on the steep converging slopes is shot down in avalanches during or after' every storm, heaping snow on snow to a depth of a hundred feet, or even more at times. These treasured banks are never wholly melted, however hot the summer, but with the few lingering glaciers form perennial fountains for the highest tributaries of the rivers.

Few even among Californians have any fair conception of the marvelous abundance of glacier lakes hidden in the fastnesses of our mountains. The snow and some of the glaciers make a telling show, even from the distant lowlands; but not a single stream is visible, nor a hollow where one might hope to find a lake. Nevertheless, wild rivers are falling and sounding in every canon, and all their upper branches are fairly laden with lakes like orchard-trees with fruit. They nestle in rocky nooks and hollows about all the high peaks and in the larger canons, reflecting their stern, rugged beauty and giving charming animation to the bleakest and most forbidding landscapes. From the summit of Red Mountain, a day's journey to the east of Yosemite Valley, forty-two may be seen within a radius of eight or ten miles. The whole number in the Sierra can hardly be less than fifteen hundred, exclusive of the smaller gems, which are innumerable. Perhaps two-thirds of them lie on the west flank of the range, and all are restricted to the alpine and subalpine regions, those which once brightened the lower regions having long since vanished by the filling in of their basins. Lake Tahoe is king of them all, not only in size, but in the surpassing beauty of its shores and waters. It seems a kind of heaven to which the dead lakes of the lowlands had come with their best beauty spiritualized. It lies embosomed in mountains of moderate height near the northern extremity of the high portion of the Lake Tahoe in Winter. 123 range, between the main axis and a spur that puts out on the east side from near the head of the Carson River. Though it is twenty-one miles long by ten wide, and from about five hundred to sixteen hundred feet deep, its basin was once occupied by a glacier which filled it from the bottom to a point high above the present water-level, and being lavishly fed by the snows of the encompassing mountains, crawled slowly, like a mighty river, over the north rim of the basin, crushing and grinding the lower mountains that lay in its way, and it was only at the end of the ice period that this noble lake, at least in anything like its present form, came into existence.